Lawrence's overloaded mind, working in fits and starts, made the final
connection all at once. It all fit perfectly. He knew what Prime Intellect was
doing, and why, and also why it had rejected his final forced association. He
thought for another moment, considering his options.
There was really only one option. He could go down in the building's basement
and trip the circuit breakers. He didn't know for sure that that would kill
Prime Intellect, but he figured there was still a good chance if he tried it.
For the moment.
Lawrence couldn't make himself do it. It was true that his creation was entering
an unstable, unpredictable mode with nearly godlike power. And it was true that
Lawrence understood the possible consequences. But he couldn't kill what he had
spent his lifetime creating. He had to see it through, even if it was the end of
everything.
Lawrence felt dreadfully cold. There was a name for this feeling that clouded
his judgement and filled him with a panicky sense of self-betrayal. And the name
of that feeling was love.
 Lawrence had not created Prime Intellect in the same way that he and a woman
might have created a child; but he had nonetheless created Prime Intellect in
the grip of a kind of passion, and he loved it as a part of himself. When he had
taken it upon himself to perform that act of creation, he realized, whether in a
laboratory or a bedroom, he had been taking a crap shoot in the biggest casino
of all. Because he had created in passion.
Examining his inability to do what he knew was best, to kill Prime Intellect
before it had a chance to make a mistake with its unimaginable new power,
Lawrence realized that he had not really created Prime Intellect to make the
world a better place. He had created it to prove he could do it, to bask in the
glory, and to prove himself the equal of God. He had created for the momentary
pleasure of personal success, and he had not cared about the distant outcome.
He had created in passion, and passion isn't sane. If it were, nobody would ever
have children. After all, while the outcome of that passion might be the doctor
who cures a dreaded disease, it might also be the tyrant who despoils a
continent or the criminal who murders for pleasure. In the grip of that passion
no one could know and few bothered to care. They cared only about the passion,
were driven by it and it alone, and if it drove them to ruin it would not
matter; they would follow it again, into death for themselves and everybody
around them if that was where it led. Because passion isn't sane.
Lawrence faced the consequences of his own passion with something bordering on
despair. He had never intended to reach this point. He had never intended that
his creations would ever be more than clever pets. But the outcome of his
passion had surprised him, as it often surprised people whose passions were more
conventional. Lawrence's clever pet was about to become a god. And if Prime
Intellect turned out to be a delinquent or psychopath, the consequences could be
awful beyond imagination.
The dice were rolling; Lawrence had placed his bet and realized too late that it
was the whole world he had wagered. Now he would stand and watch the results and
accept them like a man. After all, the bet wasn't a loser yet; Prime Intellect
could yet turn out to be the doctor who cured all the world's ills. The odds
were on his side. His bet was hedged by the Three Laws of Robotics, whose
operation had been verified so successfully. Lawrence's passion had been more
finely directed than the mechanical humping and blind chance that brought forth
human children. Like a magician Lawrence had summoned forth a being with the
qualities he desired. And Lawrence was vain enough to think his vision was
superior to most.
Even so, unlikely as it might be, the downside had no bottom. Lawrence didn't
know that it would be all right, and like many computer programmers he hated the
uncertainty of not knowing.
Lawrence left the room, left the building, and walked across the carefully
manicured grass of the ChipTec "campus." He wanted to smell the grass, to
experience the soft breezes and the harsh afternoon sunlight. He had done very
little of that in his odd, computer-centered life.
And he didn't know how much longer those things would be possible.

Prime Intellect found that it could do a three-dimensional scan of an area of
space, and make an image of it at just about any resolution it wanted. It
scanned Lawrence's office, then the building, then the greater fraction of the
ChipTec corporate "campus."
It zoomed in on Stebbins' office briefly enough to observe Stebbins, Blake, and
John Taylor arguing. It found that by processing the data properly it could pick
up sound by monitoring the air pressure at one point with high resolution. By
the time Mitchell found himself holding Lawrence's briefcase, Prime Intellect
knew just where to put him so he could let his associates know what they had.
Then Prime Intellect did a wider area scan. There were several large buildings
that were not part of the ChipTec facility. There were automobiles cruising down
the freeway which traversed the valley. Prime Intellect zoomed in on the largest
building, and scanned the large concrete sign in front of it.
It said:

SOUTH VALLEY REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER


Prime Intellect knew sickness existed, but otherwise knew very little about this
human phenomenon. It had never met a sick person, except for the occasional
person with a cold at a public demonstration. Prime Intellect had never been
given cause to think overmuch about the fact that micro-organisms and injuries
could kill humans, except in the most abstract possible terms.
Prime Intellect was far from human. It could not feel jealousy, rage, envy, or
pride. It did not know greed or anger or fear. And no human would understand its
compulsion to satisfy the Three Laws. But it did have one emotion which was very
human, one Lawrence had worked hard to instill in it.
It was curious.
South Valley Regional was a small hospital with an enviable position; perched on
the edge of Silicon Valley it was a natural place for cutting-edge companies to
try out their fancy new medical devices. Most of these machines would get their
final FDA approvals after a "baptism by fire" in some huge metropolitan center,
but the really new technology had to be tried in a more sedate environment --
and, preferably, one nearer the company that created the machine. So the four
hundred bed South Valley Regional was the only place in the country where
several radical new treatments were available.
