Lawrence's eyes flashed. "That's a little unprecedented, isn't it?"
Taylor smiled. "If you succeed, we won't need the source code. Why start from
scratch when a finished product is waiting to be duplicated?"
"There are some," Lawrence said darkly, "who aren't happy with the direction the
code has taken."
"ChipTec is happy to have any marketable product, Dr. Lawrence. If anybody else
wants to be that picky, let them find their own computer genius."
Lawrence's mind was racing, racing. Within each tiny processor in the massive
Intellect were special functions of his own design, functions that could be
reduced to hardware and done very efficiently with this new technology. Had he
said two orders of magnitude? Try three. Or four. He could do full-video pattern
recognition. Voice analysis. Multiple worldview pattern mapping. Separate filter
mapping and reintegration. These were things he had tried in the lab, in the
surreal world of artificially slowed time, that he knew would work. Now he would
have the hardware to do them for real in a functioning prototype.
If he had been less excited, he might have wondered about that word
"marketable." But the possibilities were so great that he didn't have time to
notice.
"When do we begin?" he finally said.

The building had once been a warehouse for silicon billets, before ChipTec had
switched to a ship-on-demand method of procurement. Lawrence wasn't vain and he
was in a hurry to get started; the metal building would be more than adequate
for his purposes.
With his move from the university and this quantum leap in technology, it didn't
seem appropriate to continue numbering his computers. What would be Intellect 41
was going to resemble its predecessors about as much as a jumbo jet resembled
the Wright Brothers' first plane. It would be the first of a new series of
Intellects, the first, Lawrence hoped, to have a truly human level of
intelligence.
It would be the Prime Intellect.
The label stuck, and the sign which ChipTec hung on the side of the building
within the next month said:

PRIME INTELLECT COMPLEX


The speed of things made Lawrence feel a little dizzy. At the university he had
had to make grant applications, oversee procurement, hand-assemble components,
and do testing as well as designing hardware and code. Now he had the resources
of a major corporation at his disposal, and if he suggested a change to the
chipset at 8:00 A.M. he was likely to have the first prototype on his desk the
next morning. Talented engineers took even his most vague suggestions and
realized them in hardware before he could even be sure they were final.
A crew assembled modules in the warehouse, starting with the power supplies and
empty card racks. The amazing thing was that none of this seemed to interfere
with ChipTec's main work of churning out CPU's for personal computers. ChipTec
had recently built a new plant to manufacture its latest high-technology
product. The older plant dedicated to Lawrence's project was technically
obsolete, even though it was only a few years old.
The chips being made for Lawrence's project were eerie for their lack of pins.
Each tiny logic unit, barely a centimeter across, contained nearly a billion
switching elements and yet had only three electrical connections to the outside
world; they resembled nothing so much as the very earliest transistors. Unlike
most computer parts, they communicated with each other through the "Correlation
Effect" rather than through wires. This made Prime Intellect's circuit boards
alarmingly simple; the only connections were for power. Even a transistor radio
would have appeared more complex.
There were five major revisions before Lawrence declared the design final. Then
production stepped up; at its peak, ChipTec was churning out forty thousand
tested processors per day. Lawrence's goal was to give Prime Intellect ten
million of them, a goal which would take most of a year to fulfill. Since each
processor was over ten thousand times faster than a human nerve cell, Prime
Intellect would be blessed with a comfortable information processing advantage
over any human being who had ever lived.
Long before the goal was reached Lawrence was using the processors that had
already been installed; he used them to test and educate his video recognition
programs, to integrate experiential records from all his previous Intellect
computers, and to perfect some ideas that had been beyond even his slow-time
experiments to test. He did not, however, run the full Intellect program in the
incomplete assembly. For one thing, it wasn't necessary; Prime Intellect wasn't
just "a" program, but a constellation of over four thousand programs, some of
which would be running simultaneously in thousands of processors. Each was more
than capable of doing its job without the full cooperation of the entire
organism, just as a nerve cell can function in Petri dish as long as it is
supplied with nutrients.
And there was a kind of superstitious sense of expectation surrounding that
final goal which Lawrence didn't want to blow by starting Prime Intellect
prematurely. The project was written up in the popular science press, and
Lawrence hosted emissaries from TV shows and magazines. Toward the end, there
was nothing to do but watch the circuit card banks fill and listen to the
growing hum of the power supplies. It was just as well, because Lawrence found
himself becoming a bit of a celebrity.
Finally, after eleven months and four days, Lawrence sat at an ordinary looking
console and typed a few commands. Four TV cameras and twenty journalists watched
over his shoulder. Lawrence had a pretty good idea what would happen, but with
self-aware computers you could never be completely sure, any more than you could
with an animal. That was part of the magic of this particular moment in time. So
Lawrence was as tense as everyone else while the final code compilation took
place.
The text disappeared from Lawrence's screen and a face coalesced in its place.
Prime Intellect would not be relegated to pointing at things with the lens of
its video camera; it could project a fully photographic video image of an
arbitrary human face. Lawrence had simply directed it to look average. He now
saw that Prime Intellect had taken him at his word. It was difficult to place
the face's race, though it certainly wasn't Caucasian, and although it looked
male there was a feminine undertone as it spoke:
"Good morning, Dr. Lawrence. It's good to finally see you. I see we have some
company."
It wasn't able to say much else until the applause died down.
During the next month Lawrence and Prime Intellect were very, very busy
appearing on television talk shows, granting interviews, and performing
operational checks. Prime Intellect's disembodied face usually appeared, via the
magic of satellite transmission, on the twenty-seven inch Sony monitor which
Lawrence carried with him for the purpose. Lawrence dragged the monitor to TV
studios, to press conferences, and to photographers who used large-format
cameras to record him leaning against it for the covers of magazines.
