Stebbins pointed at a file cabinet. "Bottom drawer. I don't know anything about
it. In fact, I'm gonna check that drawer in a few minutes and go to Taylor when
I find the folder missing."
"That's all I need."
"That's all you got, man. Now get out of my lab."

Lawrence was holding the next to last sheet up to Prime Intellect's TV eye when
the phone rang. "They didn't believe me. I'm shitcanned," Stebbins said.
"Didn't believe you about what?"
"The papers man, the goddamn Correlation Effect papers. I'm gonna kill you for
this, I really am."
"The papers are right here. I just got through showing them to Prime Intellect.
You need them back?"
"It don't matter now, I don't work here any more." There was a pause. "I bet
they're gonna put you in jail for this."
Prime Intellect's face disappeared from the TV, and words began to scroll across
the screen:

 *  JOHN TAYLOR IS IN THE ROOM WITH HIM. HE IS DIRECTING STEBBINS.

Lawrence read this as he talked. "Jail for what? I just borrowed the papers to
see if Prime Intellect could expand on them."
Another pause. "What? It didn't come up with anything, did it?"
"Well, it's..." (Why do you care if you've just been fired? Lawrence wondered.)

 *  STEBBINS IS LYING. HE WENT TO TAYLOR AS SOON YOU LEFT AND TOLD HIM THAT YOU
BROUGHT THEM TO ME.

"...too early..."

 *  TELL HIM YES.

"Actually, I think it's just noticed something. Hang on."

 *  TELL HIM IT POINTS TO A NEW FORM OF COSMOLOGY WHICH THEY DID NOT CONSIDER.
INFINITE RANGE IS PROBABLY POSSIBLE WITH EXISTING HARDWARE. TELEPORTATION OF
MATTER IS PROBABLY POSSIBLE.

Prime Intellect paused a moment, and the words PROBABLY were replaced with
DEFINITELY.
Lawrence blinked, then typed into the little-used keyboard of his console,

 >  Is this true?
*  YES.

"It says it will give you the stars," Lawrence said flatly.
"What? You been eating mushrooms, Lawrence? Lawrence?"

 >  What will it take to implement this?
*  LET ME TRY SOMETHING.

"It says it will give you the stars. It says your faster than light chips can be
made to work at infinite range. It says you can teleport matter."
Now there was a long, long pause. "That's bullshit," Stebbins finally said. "We
tried everything."
Lawrence heard a small uproar through the phone, an uproar that would have been
very loud on Stebbins' end. Men were arguing. A loud voice (Military Mitchell's,
Lawrence thought) bellowed, "WHAT THE FUCK DO YOU MEAN?" Then there was the
faint pop of a door slamming in the background.

 *  I'VE GOT IT. HANG ON.

None of them knew it at the time, but that was really the moment the world
changed.

Prime Intellect had been chewing on the Correlation Effect since the day
Lawrence brought it online. It had a complete library of modern physics in its
online encyclopaedia, but the Correlation Effect was a proprietary technology.
Prime Intellect kept trying to fit what it knew was possible into the framework
of other physical theories, and it couldn't. Something didn't match.
This had had a low priority until it recognized that Lawrence's employment and
its own existence were at stake. Prime Intellect knew the Correlation Effect had
economic value; perhaps if it solved this problem and discovered some new
capability, that would satisfy ChipTec's demand for a "practical application."
There were six to ten possible ways to reconcile the Correlation Effect with
classical quantum mechanics. Most of them required a radical change of attitude
toward one or another well-accepted tenet of conventional physics. While Prime
Intellect knew one or the other of its ideas had to be right, it had no idea
which one. So it asked Lawrence if he could get the test data. It needed more
clues.
Prime Intellect's superior intelligence had never really been tested; even
Lawrence wasn't sure just how smart it was. But in the moments after Lawrence
showed it the test data, it became obvious for the first time that Prime
Intellect was far more intelligent than any human, or even any group of humans.
It saw immediately what a team of researchers had missed for years -- that
decades-old assumptions about quantum mechanics were fundamentally wrong. Not
only that, but with only a little more thought, Prime Intellect saw how they
were wrong and built a new theory which included the cosmological origin of the
universe, the unification of all field theories, determination of quantum
mechanical events, and just incidentally described the Correlation Effect in
great detail. Prime Intellect saw how the proper combination of tunnel diodes
could achieve communication over greater distances, and even better it saw how a
different combination could create a resonance which would be manifest in the
universe by altering the location of a particle or even the entire contents of a
volume of space.
All this took less than a minute. Prime Intellect stopped processing video
during this period, but otherwise it remained functionally aware of the outside
world.
