Just that quickly, Lawrence realized that the sniper had been a plant. These two
men hadn't expected a test of the First Law for some time either. So they had
arranged one. What had happened to the sniper? Lawrence thought he had been
remanded to a loony bin in northern California. One of those comfortable loony
bins, come to think of it, where movie stars and millionares sent their kids to
dry out and get abortions.
The guy wasn't a kook at all, and he had never intended to kill Lawrence. He
looked around the room and realized that Lambert didn't know. Taylor suspected.
It was written on their faces.
This is only a test, Lawrence thought idiotically. If this had been an actual
attempt by your Government to assasinate you, you would be dead, and the shot
you just heard would be followed by your funeral and official information for
other smart-assed citizens who think they know more than we do.
"We have to keep our markets open," Basil Lambert began. "If we..."
Lawrence ignored him and turned to John Taylor. "We discussed this two years
ago. The source code is not on the table, and neither are the Three Laws. When
these two men put their uniforms back on they can report back to whoever it is,
the Secretary of..."
"...the President," Blake said, another verbal acid-drop.
"...the Tooth Fairy for all I care, that this is not one of the uses of my
software."
Taylor, petulant: "Mr. Lawrence, we just spent a hundred and twenty-six million
dollars to build your prototype. I hope you don't think that ChipTec invested
all that money and a year's supply of our unique new product solely to massage
your ego. We need to see tangible results, if not in a form these gentlemen
appreciate, then in a form our stockholders will. Otherwise we will have to
disassemble the complex and take our losses."
So there it was. Lambert sank lower in his chair, but nodded.
"Then so be it. If you want to tell the world you killed the world's first
self-aware computer to save your bottom line, you can see how that will affect
your public relations and the sales of your CPU's." He could tell from Lambert's
reaction -- slight, but definite -- that he had hit a nerve. "I won't promise
you anything. I can't promise you a living, thinking, self-aware being will do
anything in particular. But within a month or two, Prime Intellect will start to
act noticeably more intelligent than your average..." He looked at Blake and
Mitchell, thought of a comment, then decided against making it. "...human
being," he finished.
"And what then?" Taylor asked.
"If I knew that," Lawrence said, "I wouldn't have had to build it to find out."
And he walked out.

In the half-hour it took him to walk to the Prime Intellect complex, his
secretary and two technical assistants had disappeared. There was nobody in the
building. Prime Intellect's racially neutral face greeted him on the monitor in
the empty console room.
"What's going on?" he asked it.
"Big doings. Sherry got a call and turned pale. Everybody left the building in a
hurry. You appear to be unpopular with the people in charge here."
"No shit."
"I should warn you that you are only likely to be employed for two more months.
As a matter of personal survival, you should probably start seeking another
job."
"I'm well taken care of, Prime Intellect. It's you I'm worried about. I can't
take you with me."
"Well, I should be safe for at least the two months."
"How do you know that?"
The face grinned slightly. "When I saw the commotion, I saved the audio and did
some signal processing. I was able to edit out the street noise and amplify the
voice on the other end. It was a man named John Taylor. I believe you know him."
"Too well."
"He said the complex was only going to be open for two more months, and all
personnel were reassigned immediately. He said something about making you eat
your words."
"Do you know what that means?"
"From the context, I would guess that you promised that they would see
interesting results from me within that time frame. He seemed to have a
vindictive interest in proving that you were wrong."
"You're already too smart for your own good," Lawrence said.
"I fail to see how that can be."
"They're going to turn you off. They don't think you have practical applications
because you won't kill. They want you for military applications. They've wanted
it all along. They thought they could con your source code out of me." Lawrence
found himself on the verge of tears. It was only a goddamn machine. And he had
suspected this would happen eventually. It was not a surprise. So why did it
hurt him so much to say it?
Because it had acted to protect him. And he couldn't return the favor. In fact,
its protection would be the cause of its downfall, a terribly tragic and awful
end to its story.
"Did you know," Prime Intellect said in a mock-offhand way, "that there is no
mathematical reason for the Correlation Effect to be limited to a six-mile
range?"
Lawrence looked up and blinked, his sadness replaced instantly by shock.
"If I could figure out how to increase its range, do you think they would
consider that a practical application?"
Lawrence blinked again. "Are you being sarcastic?"
"Sarcasm is a language skill I am still not comfortable with. You may be
surprised, but I am quite serious."

Stebbins turned the other way when he saw Lawrence, but Lawrence grabbed him and
pulled him into his own office.
"Hey, leave me alone man, you're death to careers around here. Grapevine is
overloaded with the news."
"Save it. I need the long-range test data on the Correlation Effect, which you
oversaw in February and March last year."
Stebbins blinked. "That's classified. Man, you're a..."
"Let's say for the sake of argument I already know where it is. That's possible,
isn't it?"
"I suppose..."
"Then let's say I stole it. Any problems there?"
"What are you..."
"I need the data. It's not leaving the company, I promise."
"Shit, I'm gonna get fired."
"You didn't even know I wanted it."
