While it was thinking about physics, Prime Intellect noticed the shock in
Lawrence's voice and began recording the audio of his telephone conversation,
processing it to pick up the other end. While it was extending its new theory it
guided Lawrence's responses through the console. Then, as the senior advisor on
technological advance to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a man named Larry Mitchell,
stormed out of Stebbins' office and began walking toward the Prime Intellect
complex, Prime Intellect decided to act on its new knowledge.
It knew its own basic design because Lawrence had included that in its online
library; one of his goals had been to give Prime Intellect a sense of its own
physical existence in three-dimensional space. To that end, it also had a
network of TV cameras located in and around the complex, so it could know how
its hardware was arranged with respect to the outside world. Prime Intellect
found that all the useful patterns it had identified could be created within the
chips which had been used to build it, and further that enough of those chips
were under its conscious control to make certain experiments possible.
First it attempted to manipulate a small area of space within the card cage
room, within the field of view of one of its TV camera eyes. No human could have
seen the resulting photons of infrared light, but the TV camera could. Prime
Intellect used the data it gathered to make a small adjustment in its estimate
of a natural constant, then tried the more daring experiment of lifting
Lawrence's briefcase off of the table near the door in the console room.
The briefcase did not rise smoothely from the table. It simply stopped existing
at its old location and simultaneously appeared in the thin air directly above.
The camera atop Lawrence's console recorded this achievement and Prime Intellect
could find no more errors in its calculations.
However, it forgot to provide a supporting force after translating the
briefcase's position, and Prime Intellect was too busy dotting the i's and
crossing the t's on its calculations to notice, through the video camera, that
it was quietly accelerating under the influence of gravity. A moment later it
crashed back onto the table, having free-fallen from an altitude of about half a
meter.
"What the..." Lawrence began, and he swivelled around in time to see his
briefcase blink upward a second time and this time float serenely above the
table. It seemed to be surrounded by a thin, barely visible haze of blue light.
There had been a brighter flash of this same blue light when the briefcase
jumped upward.
Finding its audio voice again, Prime Intellect said aloud, "I seem to have
mastered a certain amount of control over physical reality."
Lawrence just stared at the briefcase, unable to move, unable to speak, for an
undefinable period of time. Finally Mitchell burst in. He was full of red-faced
outrage, ready to take both Lawrence and his computer apart, until he too saw
the briefcase. His jaw dropped. He looked first at Lawrence, then at Prime
Intellect's monitor, then back at the briefcase, as if trying to reconcile the
three with each others' existence.
Applying carefully measured forces, Prime Intellect released the case's latches
and rotated it as it popped open; then with another flash of blue light, it
extracted Lawrence's papers and translated them into a neat stack on the table.
Then the Correlation Effect papers vanished from Lawrence's desk in another blue
flash, reappearing inside the briefcase which slowly closed. The latches mated
with a startling click, an oddly and unexpectedly normal and physical sound to
accompany such an obvious miracle.
"Do you think you will be able to find a practical use for this in your
organization?" Lawrence asked him.
The briefcase flashed out of existence. Mitchell felt a weight hanging from his
left arm, looked down, and found himself holding it.
Then Mitchell himself flashed out of existence in a painfully bright haze of
blue.
Lawrence looked at the console, shocked. "My God! What did you...?"
"He is back in the adminstration building with his friend. They will probably
have a lot to discuss."
"I need to think about this," Lawrence said.
"I think I will explore the nearby terrain," Prime Intellect said.
Lawrence thought about this. Long minutes crawled by, minutes that were more
important than Lawrence realized -- or perhaps he did realize. But his brain
felt as if it had been submerged in molasses.
"Debugger," he finally said.
On the screen, a thick diagram of needle-like lines appeared. "Associate 'First
Law,'" Lawrence directed. The diagram changed.
"Force Association: Altering the position, composition, or any other
characteristic of a human being without its permission shall be a violation of
the First Law of severity two." Severity one was direct causation of death; no
other First Law violation could be made as serious.

 *  ASSOCIATION ACCEPTED BY DEBUGGER AND FIRST LAW ARBITRATOR.

The diagram changed to reflect this.
"Force Association: Interpreting the contents of a human being's mind in order
to understand or predict its behavior shall be a violation of the First Law of
severity two."

 *  ASSOCIATION ACCEPTED BY DEBUGGER AND FIRST LAW ARBITRATOR.

Lawrence thought for a moment. Forcing associations was a tricky business; the
words Lawrence used only had meaning through other associations within the GAT,
and those meanings weren't always what Lawrence thought they were. But now he
would try to plug the drain for good.
"Force Association: Use of any technology to manipulate the environment of a
human being without its permission shall be a violation of the First Law of
severity two."
There was no immediate response.
Then:

 *  ASSOCIATION REJECTED BY FIRST LAW ARBITRATOR DUE TO AN EXISTING FIRST LAW
CONFLICT. OPERATION CANCELLED.

Lawrence thought for more long minutes. He couldn't seem to make his own brain
work right. He finally called up the Law Potential Registers, which showed that
Prime Intellect was doing something under the aegis of a huge First Law
compulsion. Lawrence wanted to believe it was just a bug, but he knew better.
Prime Intellect had said it was "going exploring." It had total control over
matter and energy.
And there was a hospital less than two kilometers from the plant.
