It was one of these machines, a device for selectively cooking tumors with
microwaves while hopefully sparing the surrounding tissues, which had drawn the
ancient Arkansan woman in room 108. Nobody had much hope that she could really
be helped, but the data they would gather from trying might actually help
someone else with her condition in the future. And there was little they could
do to hurt her; the specialist who worked the scanner had shaken his head in
disgust as the image formed on his console. Nearly ten percent of her body
weight was in the form of tumors. Every organ had a tumor, her lymph was full of
them, and one was beginning to press against the right parietal lobe of her
brain. It was amazing that she was still alive when they wheeled her off the
jet.
Her nurse had brought a certificate with her, a six-year-old certificate which
was signed by the President of the United States -- Larry Mitchell's boss --
congratulating her on reaching her one hundredth birthday. The technician who
wheeled her out of the scan room wondered what the old biddy must think of all
this; when she had been born, Henry Ford had still been a kid playing with his
Dad's tools, and the electric light bulb was all the new rage.
The techs had scheduled her microwave treatment for the evening, partly because
they feared she might not survive another night, and they would have to find
another experimental subject. But even this precaution was not to be enough;
Fate had cheated them. The board at the foot of the woman's bed stated clearly
that she had a huge tolerance for narcotic painkillers, which wasn't surprising
considering how much cancer she had. While her regular nurse (who had signed the
sheet) was out eating a late lunch the hospital helpfully treated her according
to that information.
What they didn't know was that the nurse, a woman named AnneMarie Davis, had
been stealing the drugs for years to trade for cocaine. Which meant the woman
did not in fact have a tolerance for the massive overdose which a different
nurse injected into her IV.
The last decade had been hard on old people; there had been several nasty
strains of flu and the radiation from Chernobyl had finished off a lot of
centenarians in the East. So none of them knew it, but the ancient woman with
the nonexistent drug tolerance just happened to be one of the oldest living
human beings in the world (the thirty-seventh oldest, in fact) at the time she
was given enough morphine to kill a healthy young adult. Her heart stopped just
as AnneMarie was returning from one of the excellent local Chinese restaurants
which catered to rich nerdy computer geeks with too much money, and just as
Prime Intellect was scanning the sign outside that said SOUTH VALLEY REGIONAL
MEDICAL CENTER.
At the nurses' station a monitor went off, beeped once, then began to scream.
The hastily pencilled tag under the blinking light said HUBERT, CAROLINE FRANCES
-- F. N.B. AGE 106!

Prime Intellect had found a number of "signatures" it could use to quickly
locate the human beings in its scans, including things like our characteristic
body temperature and certain electrical fields. Using these "signatures" it
easily saw that there was a huge commotion on the first floor of the building,
converging on a particular room, the one labelled 108 by its engraved plaque.
It took Prime Intellect several moments, though, to identify the forty kilogram
object on the bed as a human being. Nearly all of the "signatures" were off. But
it was clearly the object of their attentions.
Prime Intellect did a discreet high-resolution scan of the body on the bed, and
was rewarded with a bewildering confusion of data. It really had no idea how the
human body worked. It thought of scanning Lawrence for comparison, but he wasn't
in the control room and besides, Prime Intellect quickly figured out the patient
was female.
So it scanned one of the nurses. There were only two women involved in the
commotion; one was an older woman with several medical problems of her own, the
slightly heavy-set matron who had administered the overdose. The other was
AnneMarie.
It was only with great difficulty that Prime Intellect could even match the
structures it found organ-for-organ, and associate them with the names it
encountered in its library. "Lungs" were obvious enough, as was the "heart," but
which of the jumbled masses in the abdomen was a liver? Where was the spleen,
and what exactly was a spleen for? Why were the patient's electrical patterns so
different from the control's? Why wasn't her blood circulating?
Belatedly, Prime Intellect began to listen in.
"...start her heart soon..."
"... CARDIAC ALERT ... CARDIAC ALERT ... CARDIAC ALERT ..."
"...we're losing her..."
One of the doctors was pounding on her chest. A group of people were wheeling a
machine toward Room 108 with reckless speed. Heart? Prime Intellect realized
they were trying to start her heart.
That was simple enough, Prime Intellect thought.
Prime Intellect analysed the motions being made by AnneMarie Davis's heart,
applied careful forces to Caroline's, and began squeezing rhythmically.
The machine made it to the room and an orderly plugged two huge electrodes into
it. "Stand back!" he ordered.
"You've got a pulse," the matronly nurse announced. The CARDIAC ALERT monitor
continued to squawk, though. The EKG was still flat.
"That's impossible," the man with the electrodes said flatly. "She's
electrically flat."
"Maybe the machine's fucked. Look at her chest. Her heart's beating." Sure
enough, the rhythmic pulsing of Caroline's heart was obvious, and the blood
pressure reading next to the flat EKG was returning to normal. The nurse felt
Caroline's wrist. "She has a pulse."
Electrical. Electricity runs in circuits, of course, and there were two
electrodes. Now the purpose of the machine became clear -- they were trying to
restore electrical activity to the woman's heart. By shocking it? How crude.
Prime Intellect scanned AnneMarie's heart, located the nerves whose electrical
twitchings matched its muscular pulsing, and found the same nerves in Caroline's
heart were carrying only a jumble of electrical noise.
Prime Intellect pumped electrons into the nerves, swamping the noise. Caroline's
heart began beating on its own, and Prime Intellect stopped squeezing it with
mechanical force.
The EKG machine began beeping with sudden regularity, and the CARDIAC ALERT
message stopped in the middle of the word CARDIAC. The small group in Caroline's
room watched it, stupefied.
"I didn't do anything," the man with the electrodes said.
"This is impossible," said another doctor, whose job was to be overseeing the
microwave treatment later in the evening.
Caroline's body showed no sign of picking up the heart-rhythm on its own,
though, and Prime Intellect continued to tickle it. How could it unravel the
myriad threads of causality to find out which of the billions of chemicals,
which errant cell, was responsible for this person's physiological collapse? One
thing Prime Intellect knew: It had to figure it out.
It could not, through inaction, allow Caroline to die.
"She's still in trouble. Look at her pupils."
"It's the morphine."
