Blake had pulled a tiny cellular phone from his pocket and began whispering
frantically into it. Mitchell, who was already shaking, heard what his colleague
was saying and fell to his knees. Prime Intellect moved to support him and he
waved it away. Blake put up the phone, having repeated the same phrase -- "code
scarecrow" -- four times.
"We're dead," Mitchell said in a defeated monotone.
"How is that?" Lawrence asked pleasantly.
"Within minutes," Blake said, "A bomber will fly over and deposit a small
nuclear device on this square. I doubt if we have time to escape. But we cannot
allow this...thing...to continue running wild."
Lawrence looked at Prime Intellect.
"If that thing stops it, another will be sent, and another, until the job is
done. The order I just gave is irrevocable."
"There is nothing to worry about, Dr. Lawrence. One of the first things I did
with my enhanced capabilities was to neutralize the world's stockpile of nuclear
weapons. I could see no positive reason to leave them in existence."
Now it was Blake's turn to turn white.
"How?" Lawrence asked.
"I merely scanned the planet, replacing all radioactive isotopes with relatively
nontoxic and non-radioactive atoms. This was a very simple automatic process. It
has also taken care of some pressing nuclear waste problems, I am pleased to
add."
"You merely scanned the planet. Obviously," Lawrence said. It seemed that the
mad laughter might break through at any moment, and Lawrence was afraid that if
that happened he wouldn't be able to stop it.
Blake bellowed. "You crazy machine...all radioactive elements? What about
research, what about medicine...nuclear subs, you've killed the crews..."
"There is no research and no medical function which cannot be done much more
efficiently with the Correlation Effect, without the attendant dangers of toxic
waste and ionizing radiation. As for submarines, I am also maintaining the
thermal power output of all reactors which were being used to generate
electricity. I also remembered to adjust the bouyancy of ships as necessary,
since the replacement materials are not as dense as the radioactive ones."
Blake thought for several moments, then seemed to compose himself. "So you've
thought of everything."
"I have tried."
Then he said, "Get up, Larry."
Mitchell got up and brushed himself off. He had finally broken, and tears were
running slowly down his face.
"Could you transport us to the White House, so we can report on what we have
seen?"
Prime Intellect shrugged just like a human would have, Lawrence thought, before
dispatching them into the aether with a blue flash.

They sat together on the park bench like a weird version of one of those
low-class sentimental paintings - Father and Son Feed the Pigeons. Prime
Intellect made the silver boxes go away after they filled the common square.
Then it summoned bread so that they could feed the pigeons. The animals seemed
to accept Prime Intellect as a human being. Was it Lawrence's imagination, or
was its speech becoming more natural and idiomatic as the hours passed? It must
be learning at a terrible rate, Lawrence knew. Learning and growing. And what
would it become when it was fully mature?
