Lawrence was reminded by several people that there had once been a television
show about a similar disembodied deus ex machina. He got a videotape of some of
the old episodes and showed them to Prime Intellect, and the computer made a
small career of its lighthearted Max Headroom imitation.
Debunkers tried to trace the signal and prove there was an actual human behind
the image; ChipTec let them examine the console room, where Prime Intellect's
physical controls were located, and the huge circuit-card racks.
Military personnel began appearing in the audiences of the TV shows, taking
notes and conferring in hushed tones. Lawrence ignored them, but the higher-ups
at ChipTec did not. There were discussions to which Lawrence was not privy, and
powerful people pondered the question of how to tell him important things.
Lawrence's last live appearance ended abruptly when a fanatic stood up in a TV
studio with a .22-caliber rifle. Fortunately he used his first shot to implode
the CRT of the big Sony monitor, giving Lawrence time to leap offstage and out
of sight -- Lawrence hadn't realized he was capable of moving so fast. Sony
offered to replace the monitor free of charge, but from that point on Prime
Intellect's television face was simply picked up by the networks straight from a
satellite feed, and Lawrence appeared courtesy of the TV camera in the console
room.
It wasn't that Lawrence wasn't willing to go back onstage. He was afraid, but he
believed in his work strongly enough to take the risk. It was Prime Intellect's
decision. Shaken as Lawrence was by the experience, it took him two days to
realize Prime Intellect had become the first machine in history to actually
exercise the First Law of Robotics. It could not knowingly return him back to a
situation where a sniper might be lurking. And it surprised him by sticking to
its guns when he challenged it.
"If you try it I will refuse to appear on the monitor," the smooth face said
with a sad expression. "There is no reason for you to expose yourself to such
danger."
"It makes better PR," Lawrence said. "I'll order you to do it."
"I cannot," Prime Intellect said.
And Lawrence realized that it was overriding his Second Law direct order to
fulfill its First Law obligation to protect his life. This was annoying, but
also very good. Lawrence had not expected such a test of the Three Laws to
happen for at least several more years, when Prime Intellect or a similar
computer began to interact with the real world through robots.
Lawrence briefly considered going into the GAT with the Debugger and removing
the association between live TV and snipers -- he didn't believe it would be
hard to find. But he was too proud of his creation to squelch its first
successful independent act.
That was the day before John Taylor called him again.
John Taylor wore the same blue suit he had worn that day nearly two years
earlier when Lawrence had spotted him in the audience watching Intellect 39. It
occurred to Lawrence that he had seen John Taylor off and on over the past two
years, and that he had never seen John Taylor wearing any other article of
clothing. He wondered idly if John Taylor wore the suit to bed.
Basil Lambert was the president of the company, and he was said to be very
enthusiastic about the Intellects although he had never bothered to say more
than three consecutive words to Lawrence, their creator. Lambert said "Hello"
when Lawrence entered the conference room.
The other two men might as well have had the word military engraved on their
foreheads. They were interchangeably firm in bearing, and sat rigidly upright as
if impaled on perfectly vertical steel rods. One was older with silver hair,
tall and thin and hard. Lawrence imagined that this was a man who could give the
order to slaughter a village full of children without looking up from his prime
rib au jus. The other was wide enough to be called fat, though Lawrence could
tell there was still a lot of muscle in the padding. His hair was brown but
beginning to gray. He radiated grandfatherly protection and broad-shouldered
strength. He would have lots of jolly, fatherly reasons why the 200 pushups he
had ordered you to do were in your own long-term best interest.
Here it comes, Lawrence thought with deadly certainty. The good cop and the bad
cop.
John Taylor introduced them by name. No rank, no association, just a couple of
private citizens with an interest in his work. Lawrence felt a brief and
uncharacteristic moment of anger at this insult to his own intelligence.
"The public relations campaign has been excellent, John Taylor said with a fake
and enthusiastic grin. "The assassination attempt just made you even more
popular. We have inquiries pouring in. We are gonna make a fortune on our chips
and your software."
"Glad to hear it," Lawrence said neutrally.
"What John is trying to say," Basil Lambert the Company President said, "is that
it is time to figure out what to do next. You've made a remarkable achievement,
now what are you going to do with it?"
Lawrence had been ready for this, although it shook him to hear such a direct,
such a long question from the usually stone-faced Lambert. "We don't know what
Prime Intellect's capabilities are," Lawrence said. "I had planned to continue
keeping him..." When had it become a him, Lawrence asked himself? "...in the
public eye, interacting with other people, learning. It's already impossible to
tell...it...from a television image of a person. I hope that with a little more
education, it will begin to show some of the capabilities I was aiming for back
when I started designing these machines."
"Such as?" asked the grandfatherly military man, whose name was Mitchell.
"Creativity and analytical ability," Lawrence answered without hesitation.
"Prime Intellect is still uncertain about many things. As it gets more confident
with its new abilities, it will begin to explore, and I think give us some
pleasant surprises."
Taylor was nodding absently, but Lambert was looking at the other guests. The
thin hard military man, whose name was Blake, spoke. His words were sharp and
carefully measured, like drops of acid.
"We understand that it has already shown a bit of creativity with regard to its
television monitor. Why won't it appear with you in public any more? Is it
afraid of being debunked at last?"
"It is concerned for my safety," Lawrence replied. There was no way he could
match the man's tone, acid for acid, so he simply shrugged as if relating a
curious but inconsequential fact.
"But you can override this decision." Blake stated this as if it were a known
fact, and Lawrence understood that Blake was a man who was used to people
scurrying to make sure his declarations became facts.
"Actually, I can't," Lawrence said with continuing pleasantness. "The First Law
concern for human safety is basic to its design, and I can't get rid of it
without starting over from scratch and redoing ten years of work. If I could
convince it that I was safe from snipers it would undoubtably change its mind,
but at the moment it doesn't seem worth the effort."
"Such...balkiness could limit the uses of your software," Blake said.
Lawrence looked Blake dead in the eye. "Good," he said.
