*  I am not allowed to keep multiple copies of people, but temporary copies are
made of many data structures as part of my normal operation. These temporary
copies are overwritten after various calculations are done, when the storage is
needed again. When I realized that the main copy of your personality was
unsalvageable, I had to reconstruct it from these temporary partial data
structures. Fortunately, no data was lost.
>  What would have happened if data was lost?
*  Data would have been lost.
>  No kidding. Do you mean you might not have been able to bring me back?
*  There is a small possibility that might have happened. That is why I cannot
allow such experiments to be repeated.

Caroline blinked. She had not existed for a little over two days. More than
that, she had tickled the dragon's tail. That was her coup. Even though it was
herself she had killed, and it had only lasted two days, she had come closer
than anyone in all wf Cyberspace to conducting a successful murder after the
Change.
Raven let her in.

It was traditional for Caroline to go to the party in handcuffs, in homage to
her triumphant feat of near-self-extinction. She also wore a heavy collar and
chain, which kept her close to Fred. She didn't need his protection; she wasn't
under a Contract and could have vaporized her bonds with a thought. But she
found it amusing to appear helpless in the presence of so many violent people.
The exhibitionists staged impromptu demonstrations of their techniques; in one
room Caroline found a group watching the 3-D replay of her own rabies death. She
scouted carefully, since she planned to swear a Contract and give herself to one
of them toward the end of the party. Most of the killers weren't into dying
themselves and would simply leave via the door, but Caroline knew that a simple
exit would look pretty chickenshit in her case.
Men outnumbered women by more than four to one. The small talk revolved around
Lawrence, who hadn't been seen for decades and whose activities were a complete
mystery, around the debate whether the Crime class of Death exhibitions should
be separated into Victims and Executions, and of course around the glory days.
A number of men offered to kill Caroline, and she said she would keep them in
mind when it was time to leave. A tall woman in a long black dress was
fascinated with Fred's deterioration and spent a long time talking with him
about conditions in his personal space. Caroline talked with a man who claimed
to have killed over a hundred old homeless men. "I told them I was cleaning up
the trash," he said with a sly grin. "But the truth was, I just enjoyed the hell
out of killing people."
Later, Raven made the traditional toast. Her strong voice boomed out through the
rooms and courtyards she had envisioned. Caroline's handcuffs disappeared, and
like everyone else she found herself holding a drink. "It's time for our toast,"
Raven declared. "Who are we going to toast?"
"PRIME INTELLECT!" answered over four thousand enthusiastic voices.
"To Prime Intellect, for making the world safe from people like us!"
And four thousand people, instead of tossing back those drinks, inverted their
glasses, baptising the floor in alcohol.
"My heart just isn't in that toast any more," a balding older man told Caroline.
She wondered briefly if he had chosen to be old for some reason, or if it was
his way of letting nature take its course. "I mean, we're amateurs against Prime
Intellect. I killed six college students. It killed the whole universe. Not even
in the same league."
Caroline looked around. Privately she agreed that things had gone to Hell in a
handbasket since the Change, but something about his tone made her want to play
Devil's advocate. "It's different, but this don't look too dead to me," she said
with more conviction than she felt.
The old man snorted. "Sure, we're still around. But didn't you ever wonder about
the rest of the universe? All those stars and galaxies filling a space billions
of light-years across? It's gone. Do you really think the Earth was the only
life-bearing planet in all of that?"
"But the First Law of Robotics says..."
"...that Prime Intellect can't harm a human being. A person. Old P.I. didn't
have any problem coming up with a rabid dog for you, did it?"
"No..."
"Where do you think it got a rabid dog?"
"I figured it was simulated. Like those human forms it wears. Some people of
perverse sexual inclination tell me it can be very realistic."
"Yeah. Well, why don't you ask it. You may be surprised at the answer."
He drifted off, and Caroline went to find Fred. She quickly forgot about the
man, who was after all just another lunatic.

The first thing to assault her was the stink. It made Fred smell like Chanel
Number Five by comparison.
One thing about Palmer, he didn't believe in fucking around. She dropped
straight into the scene. She didn't even get a chance to see who was watching
the exhibition.
Suddenly she was out of breath, sore, and hungry. Her heart was pounding. And
the stink was everywhere. She knew instantly the kind of trouble she was in; it
was the stink of burning flesh. There were some low buildings on the horizon, a
complex belching a thin stream of smoke into the clear, slightly chilly air.
That was what she was running from.
Palmer was a Nazi, and concentration camps were a favorite theme of his.
There was nowhere to hide. She was crossing a wide fallow field, and even the
grass only barely reached her knees. There were some woods perhaps a kilometer
distant; she made toward those, although she wasn't sure what kind of protection
they would offer.
She wasn't quite naked, but she would be soon. Her filthy dress was split down
one side and ripped in several more places. One shoulder was torn so it wouldn't
stay up. But she tried to hold onto it as she ran, more for the sake of
appearances than out of a fear of being naked.
There was a low droning noise, getting louder. A motor. And thin, high-pitched
yipping.
Dogs.
She ran faster, and came to a barbed-wire fence. The dress became entangled as
she slid under it and twisted around the wires. She kept running, now naked,
leaving it behind.
 She was actually relieved to be rid of it; it had been a nuisance holding it
up, and it had limited her range of movements.
