* Chapter One:
  Caroline At Play
 Her name was Caroline Frances Hubert, and she had three claims to fame.
In the first place she was the thirty-seventh oldest living human being.
Caroline herself was unimpressed by this fact. To her way of thinking it was the
result of an accident, nothing more. In any case she had been the thirty-seventh
oldest human being for a long, long time, and it got to seem more of a bore than
an accomplishment after a while.
In the second place she had once been infected with rabies. Caroline was rather
proud of this distinction, though it had also been a long time ago. There was a
certain class of people who were quite impressed with Caroline's bout with
rabies, not so much because she survived it but because she hadn't. It had taken
Prime Intellect fifty-six hours to realize it couldn't repair the damage to her
nervous system, to backtrack, and to put her together again like Humpty Dumpty.
For fifty-six hours, she had not existed. She had been dead. And she was the
only one of the trillions of souls in Cyberspace who had ever been dead, even
for a little while.
In the third place, and most important to Caroline because it represented a real
accomplishment rather than an accident or a one-shot stab of cleverness, she was
undisputed Queen of the Death Jockeys. She would always be the thirty-seventh
oldest person, and after her rabies experiment Prime Intellect had shut the door
on further explorations of that nature. But the Death Jockeys constantly rated
and ranked themselves by inventiveness and daring and many other factors. It was
an ongoing competition, and if Caroline didn't keep working at it she'd be lost
in an always-growing crowd of contenders. Caroline wouldn't admit that her high
ranking was important to her, but it was all she had and she threw herself at it
with an energy that was fierce and sometimes startling.

As she woke up, a window opened up in front of her, a perfect square of light,
razor-edged and opaque. One cold message floated within it:

 *  You have four challengers.

She could have had any surroundings she wanted, even a whole planet of her own
design. A waste of time, she felt. Her personal space was minimal. In fact, it
was the bare minimum, a floor and a gravity field. There was no visual
distinction between the floor and the sky or ceiling or whatever you chose to
call it. Everything was exactly the same shade of soft white. When she wanted to
relax she turned off the gravity and floated in free-fall. When she wanted to
sleep, she turned off the light. If she wanted anything else, she called for it
and then got rid of it when she was finished.
"Gravity. Keyboard," she demanded. She felt gradually increasing pressure under
her feet as a console blinked into existence. Caroline was as conservative as
her years -- six hundred and ninety of them -- might suggest, a collector of
useless skills and worthless experiences. Typing was one of the useless skills
she prized most highly, and her fingers flew rapidly as she discussed the day's
business with the Supreme Being:

>  List the records of the challengers.
*  #1. 87 recorded, 4 exhibition, rating 7
*  #2. 3 recorded, no rating
*  #3. 116 recorded, 103 exhibition, rating 9
*  #4. 40 recorded, rating 6

Caroline scowled. None of them even pre-Change -- Prime Intellect would have
noted it if they were. Babes hoping to get lucky and impress her. The third one
was interesting, though; he must have done something noteworthy to garner a 9
rating in so many exhibitions.
>  How old is #3?
*  22 years

Caroline blinked. It was hard for her to understand the souls who continued to
feel a need, even after hundreds of years, to be fruitful and multiply. Actually
encountering someone so young made her feel a little creepy. Calculating
backward, she wondered what manner of psychotic would have bothered to have a
child after 568 years of Cyberlife.

>  Background?
*  Timothy Carroll was born to orthodox Catholic parents who live with
like-minded people in a communally designed Earthlike world. He signed for
independence at age 14 and has spent most of his time Death Jockeying since. He
is considered very imaginative and takes an artistic approach. Thirty-seven of
his exhibitions have been in the Authentic class.
>  But he's also into Cybershit.
*  He is young and experimental. He may outgrow this interest in Death sports
when he has exhausted his rebellious streak.
>  You're a computer. How the fuck would you know?

Prime Intellect didn't reply; it had learned that the best response to her jabs
was to ignore them. It had long ago given up trying to reform her. She knew it
did not like Death Jockeys one little bit, if a computer could even be said to
"like" or "dislike" anything. And in Caroline's case the feeling was certainly
mutual.
 In her fantasies, she dreamed of having the power to give it a case of
heartburn so big its gears would stop turning.
Most people did not share Caroline's distaste for the Omniscient One. A great
many worshipped it, despite its apparent embarrassment over the fact. But why
not? It could and would do damn near anything you asked, as long as it didn't
affect anyone else. And even that was open to negotiation with the other people
you might want to involve. There were no noticeable limits to its power and it
never asked why. Caroline knew a whole crowd of people who preferred for Prime
Intellect to manifest itself in the form of an attractive member of the opposite
sex. Prime Intellect was nothing less than the perfect God, made incarnate by
the power of technology. Caroline couldn't see how fucking God was less
perverted than being death-obsessed, but hey, there it was.
