Caroline hadn't been all that impressed with God even in the days before
Lawrence had brought it forth in his own image. She preferred to keep it in its
place. It was just a computer. If you didn't keep that thought firmly in your
mind it was too easy to start thinking of it as human, and that was the first
step toward forgetting. Caroline didn't want to forget. And she didn't need to
fuck Prime Intellect to get her jollies anyway. She could get her jollies from
actual people. She only communicated with it at all when she had to, through the
screen, keyboard, and a few curt spoken and subvocal commends.
 >  Set it up with #3. Tell the others to come back when they've got some more
experience.
*  You have an invitation from Fred, and Raven's party is in 18 hours.
Priorities?
>  Let's deal with the challenger first.

Instantly, her surroundings changed.

She was standing in the middle of a circle of people in an open meadow.
Earthlike. With fourteen trillion people running around Cyberspace, you'd think
a few of them would come up with something more imaginative than carbon copies
of the Earth. Poor quality carbon copies at that, natch. There was a big hole in
the ground, perhaps ten feet wide, at her feet.
A tall, youthfully handsome man stood across it from her, impeccably dressed and
groomed. This was a bad sign, because appearances were cheap in Cyberspace. All
it took was a word, and you could be young or old or thin or have different
hair. You could change sex or race or even make yourself into an animal. Nobody
was impressed by appearances any more. Nobody, at least, except for those of her
generation who remembered what it was to be insecure, and the very young who
hadn't figured out the score yet.
Caroline let her own body age naturally; when she reached her apparent late
thirties, she had it restored to about age sixteen. This wasn't vanity; she
couldn't maintain her athletic lifestyle if she allowed herself to get too old.
She had been through the cycle dozens of times. Most people simply had
themselves frozen at an age they found comfortable and left it at that, but
Caroline preferred the occasional dramatic intervention. The first time she had
regressed she hadn't been asked, and doing it this way helped remind her of that
violation.
At the moment Caroline looked to be in her mid to late twenties. Her athletic
build was the result of real exercise, her skills the result of real practice.
She asked Prime Intellect for very little, and resented having to ask for that.
Caroline was naked. She had not worn clothes since the Change except for an
occasional costume in a Death fantasy. She wore no makeup, and har long hair was
an unkempt tangle. What wes the point? A word to Prime Intellect could provide
anything, fix anything, but none of those things it provided or fixed would be
uniquely hers.
Which didn't mean Caroline refused to decorate her body at all. It just meant
that she decorated it in signature style, without help from Prime Intellect.
"Welcome," he said. "I am Timothy. You are Caroline Hubert?"
"The one and only."
"An honor, then. And it is an honor for me to challenge you to accept Authentic
Death."
"Proceed," Caroline mumbled.
Caroline looked around at the audience, and noticed that they were all wearing
clothes. Worse, they were all wearing the same kind of clothes, casual dress
that would not have been out of place in a Western city just before the Change.
That was an even stronger sign she was in amateur territory. Caroline's
aesceticism may have been extreme, but she was hardly alone in her belief that
clothing was pointless for immortals. Any random grouping of people would
normally include some pretty wide variations in fashion. Especially at Death
exhibitions, which tended to attract loons and deviants like herself.
She felt an instant dislike for this kid. True, she felt an instant dislike for
nearly anybody who participated in the sham that passed for reality in
Cyberspace, but in Timothy's case the feeling was stronger than usual. This hate
welled up within her unbidden like those other mysterious and powerful feelings,
love and masochism and sexual attraction. He had a kind of natural charisma, and
she could feel the small crowd orbiting around him. Females outnumbered the
males by more than two to one. He probably had them all convinced he was a
fucking genius, as if genius was a rare commodity in Cyberspace or as if it had
anything to do.
They were anxious, though. Anxious in the presence of the great lady, anxious to
see how their little tin genius would fare. They were unnerved by her nakedness,
by her proud and alert stance, by her forthrightness and lack of
self-consciousness. They sensed that their clothing could not protect them from
her scorn, nor would her nakedness make her vulnerable to theirs.
Most of all, though, they were unnerved by the fact that she wasn't quite naked.
Caroline's body was covered with brightly colored pictures, pictures that had
obviously been there a long time. Pictures that didn't come off. The pictures
were even worse than simple nakedness, because they drew the eye to the very
parts of Caroline's body that would normally be covered and private. Timothy
coughed and posed the question that was obviously on all of their minds: "Your
body decorations are fascinating. Are they Authentic?"
"Tattoos."
"I understand the process is painful."
She flexed her arm, regarding the fat python coiled around it. Painful?
Especially the way she got them, it was painful. She was covered in serpents,
and with one exception every design had been drawn with an obsidian knife blade
and colored by rubbing natural pigments into the cuts. They covered eighty
percent of her body. Even her face was framed by a pair of green mambas. Snakes
slithered up and down her torso, coiled about her limbs, investigated her
orifices.
The one exception was a tiny black design on her left shin; that one wasn't a
snake and it wasn't a tattoo. It was the letter "F" and it was the signature of
her tattoo artist. It had been applied with a branding iron. The memories made
her smile; new tattoos were the only good thing about her periodic age
regressions.
"It doesn't kill you," she finally said.
Nervous laughter.
"All you have to do is jump in," Timothy suggested. "After making the Contract,
of course."
"It's a designed experience, is that it?"
"Yes."
"How long you spent designing it?"
"Two years. I've gone through twenty-three times myself."
