The droning got louder, and she spotted her pursuers. They were riding some kind
of truck with mini tank treads instead of rear tires; Caroline was sure that
Palmer, who was a military history buff as well as a Nazi, could Authenticate it
right down to the serial number of its motor. But Caroline was mainly concerned
that it could negotiate the rough field, and that it was faster than her.
Perhaps the woods...but there was no way she could make it in time. She was
screwed.
She ran anyway.
The droning got louder and louder and she didn't dare look back, for fear of
losing a few yards. There was an explosive report. They were shooting at her.
Another. They seemed to be shooting low; why couldn't they hit her?
Finally the sniper made his target; the bullet shattered her right ankle in
midstride and she came crashing to the ground in a blaze of pain. She grunted
and started crawling away. Then the dogs reached her, two huge snarling German
shepherds. They snarled and snapped at her but didn't bite. The halftrack pulled
up beside her and a brown-uniformed grunt pointed an evil looking rifle at her
head. He barked a command and the dogs hopped on the truck, tails wagging.
The woman in the back seat put her hand on the gun and said something to the
soldier. He didn't shoot, but kept the rifle trained on her. Although Caroline
spoke fluent German, she couldn't understand what they were saying. Palmer had
altered the language.
The woman was out of place on the halftrack. She was wearing a green velvet
dress and silk gloves. She also bore an amazing resemblance to AnneMarie, which
Caroline found amusing. It wasn't really AnneMarie; it was probably just one of
Prime Intellect's simulacra. The real AnneMarie didn't have much taste for Death
exhibitions any more. The woman pointed at Caroline and said something. The
rifle grunt nodded and put away the rifle.
Another man got out of the truck, and he wasn't a grunt. He wore an impressive
blue uniform and the insignia of the SS. Caroline also recognized this man; it
was Palmer himself. Unlike the ersatz AnneMarie, the SS man was probably the
real Palmer. He carried a truncheon, which he swung idly. He regarded her for a
moment, then gripped her left leg. Caroline kicked feebly, but she was
malnourished and had no strength. He swung the truncheon, smashing her other
ankle.
Caroline screamed, and Palmer laughed. The velvet-dress lady who looked like
AnneMarie smirked and shook her head, as if to say: Will they never learn?
Palmer smashed her hands, swinging twice at each to pulverize both her wrists
and her fingers. He began to swing at her right elbow, and the velvet-dress lady
said something. Palmer shrugged and passed the truncheon to the driver of the
halftrack. Caroline thrashed feebly, screaming and screaming.
Palmer said something, and the halftrack driver handed him a tennis ball. He
held Caroline by the hair and jammed the ball into her mouth, dislocating her
jaw. He had to squeeze it slightly to force it past her teeth. She thought she
would choke but had no such luck. She couldn't push the ball out with her
tongue, and it put an end to her screaming.
Palmer said something else to the driver, and the driver handed him a modest
hunting knife. He flipped Caroline over onto her belly, causing a fresh wave of
pain to radiate from the crunching bones of her hands and feet. He then went to
work, making quick incisions on the back of her legs. The knife dipped in and
suddenly she could no longer move her legs at all. He had cut the tendons.
Caroline tried to resist as he performed the same operation on her arms, but he
was much stronger than her. There was more conversation with the velvet dress
lady. Then he went to work again, and she was powerless to resist as the knife
traced a shallow lazy path down her back. She knew with awful clarity that she
was about to be skinned alive. The velvet-dress lady wanted her tattoos. And for
whatever sadistic reason, she wanted them removed while Caroline still lived to
appreciate what was being taken from her.
While she was on her belly she was unable to see her tormentors. She could only
feel the Palmer working on her, skillfully peeling her skin away in a single
piece from her ankles to her wrists. She couldn't stop trying to scream, but
only mangled moans got past the ball in her mouth. Eventually he had to turn her
over. Her skin flapped behind her like a loose garment. Palmer carefully spread
it out, so that she was lying on the raw meat of her back. So he could continue
working. Caroline looked up at them through eyes that were glazed over with
unspeakable agony.
She expected to see coldness in their eyes, but only the driver of the halftrack
was cold. The woman and the SS man were having fun. She watched them exchange
glances and could tell they would go back to the camp and fuck as her skin lay
in the tanning vat.
Then he went to work again, and all she could think of was the pain.
Slice by careful slice he removed her skin, until he reached her neck. She
thought that it might finally be ending, that he might use his knife to cut her
jugular vein, but instead he kept working upward, carefully peeling the two
green mambas from her face. He held her by the hair as he worked, and carefully
avoided hurting her eyes. They wanted her to see what had been done to her.
He stood up, holding something like a drapery. Her skin. It was dripping with
her blood, and slightly translucent in the morning light. The velvet-dress woman
nodded enthusiastically. He carefully folded the skin and put it in a plastic
bag.
Caroline lay at his feet, mercilessly broken and still alive. The Nazis
exchanged words. Then the halftrack driver took the bag from the SS man and
passed him a folding field shovel. He traipsed off, searching the ground for
something. She heard the spade dig in. She twitched in agony as she waited for
him to return. He came back and dumped a load of earth on her body. She raised
her head weakly to look at it. Her body was red and white, the color of raw
meat.
It was an anthill. Caroline was able to move only enough to stir it around. The
ants, big red ones, spilled out angrily.
They all laughed and Palmer got back in the halftrack. They watched her for a
few minutes. Caroline twitched harder as the ants began to bite. They laughed
again. Then Palmer the SS man said, in accented but clear English, "now you can
run as far as you like, bitch." He and the woman found this hilariously funny.
He tapped the driver and they drove off.
He had been very careful skinning her. It took several more hours for her to
Die.

"After being skinned alive, the anthill was a bit of an anticlimax," she told
Palmer, to everyone's great amusement. "Still, I'm impressed. You've outdone
yourself."
"How did you like my lady friend?"
"You always were a sarcastic bastard, Palmer. Don't push it."
Fred shambled up to shake her hand and Palmer's. "I see someone finally found a
use for all those tattoos. I'm glad my efforts are appreciated."
"I'm just sorry I couldn't keep the skin," Palmer said with a smile. He had
asked Prime Intellect, but the skin had been a grown part of Caroline's body and
it was up to her. She had wanted it back.
"Really, Palmer, we aren't that close."
There were several hundred people at the exhibition, and they all wanted to talk
to her and Palmer, so it was over an hour before she noticed the older man.
"Remember me?" he said when they had made eye contact.
"Aliens."
He nodded. "Did you ask Prime Intellect about them?"
