His rotting fingers probed her cunt. Every touch set her on fire, partly (but
not entirely) because he was using his power to control her hormones and tickle
her neurotransmitters, forcing her to become sexually excited. It was a delicate
process that could easily be carried too far, ruining the effect. But Fred was a
very careful, if repulsive, lover.
He grinned at her -- could do nothing else, really, since hardly anything was
left of his face except the skull itself. His alert eyes savored her
helplessness. He leaned over the bed, over her. He gripped her head and kissed
her, nearly choking her with his stink, teeth and bone against her lips. Then
she felt herself gripping the finger in her cunt, gripping the bone. The
throbing spread through her body, and the shambling thing emitted an evil laugh.
She heard herself screaming as the carefuly amplified orgasm ripped through her
brain.
Fred traced the outlone of her throat with the sharp tip of a finger bone. "Join
me love," he said softly. Caroline was still shaking from the force of her
orgasm when she felt the adrenaline being pumped into her system. Pleasure
yielded to fear-heart-racing, paralyzing terror. Her muscles locked in struggle
against the implacable chains, her eyes widened in helpless shock. Her heart was
a jackhammer inside of her chest. She began to hyperventilate.
The finger teased her, tracing her chin and caressing her throat.
Her entire being was focused on that finger, and the impossibility of stopping
it.
Caroline had no reason to fear death and no desire to fear Fred, but fear was
what he wanted her to feel, and he had the power to make her feel it. After a
few minutes of this supernatural fear that no mortal thankfully could ever know,
he pressed deeper and gouged. She felt her throat open, felt the warm splash of
her own blood as Fred bent over her and drank it, her own heart jetting it into
his toothy waiting mouth.
When he finished, he was covered with blood. Her blood. She felt a curious sense
of detachment, of consciousness fading away. The fear had drained from her,
leaving her with only a kind of tingling numbness. But she could never fade
completely away, not in Fred's world.
She was covered with her own blood. She felt the blood soaking the mattress.
Then there was an improbable hardness against her belly, huge and unimaginably
cold. Fred couldn't possibly have anything to violate her with. His whole body
was rotten. But he slid into position, and invaded her.
He was coldness and power. All strength had left her and she lay passive, unable
to move or protest. But she was throbbing, her body surging with feelings. She
felt the coldness spread out from her crotch, the coldness of second life. The
coldness brought back her strength.
It wasn't exactly the traditional vampire story, but it was good for a few
hours' entertainment.
After the coldness came the hunger. Fred pumped something into her that couldn't
have possibly been sperm, something searing and vicious. Something that squirmed
with unhealthy life. She again found the strength to struggle, and Fred floated
off of her, straight up. He began to laugh. At first he just chuckled, then he
laughed loud and long and hard, a shrill cry of triumph and mockery as he
hovered in the air over her body.
A haze of need seemed to fill her brain. Prime Intellect was a bit picky about
messing with peoples' brains, but Fred had spent years practicing his
manipulation of hormones and chemical neurotransmitters, which Prime Intellect
amazingly did not consider part of the "thought process." Caroline thrashed,
still helpless in Fred's chains, with an unspeakable craving. Fred had started
with the symptoms of heroin addiction, amplified them, cross-connected the
resulting feelings with her sex drive, and made her own spilled blood the only
thing that could appease the resulting hunger-lust. The smell of her blood
threatened to drive her insane with its tantalizing promise of relief. But even
though the whole room seemed to be decorated with it, every precious drop was
out of reach, and the feelings burned inside her.
Fred's emission was also still inside her, and she could feel it. Growing.
Crawling. The adrenaline rush returned. Fear and need consumed her, competing
for control. Something green began to seep from inside her. Her belly distended.
Fred touched her and made her orgasm again, and again, and again, as her body
was consumed from the inside and the hunger ate at her sanity.
She was no longer screaming just to please Fred.
He had real talent. There were too few people like him, who ceuld regularly make
her feel something beyond the ordinary boredom of day-to-day existence. Out of
trillions, Caroline could count those she respected enough to think of as lovers
on her fingers.
It was over too soon. With flesh yet on her bones (though the worms in Fred's
ejaculate had made good headway), he granted her one final burst of ecstasy and
released her, returning her body to normal.
They had a party to attend.

In Cyberspace, there was always a party going on.
But there were conventions as to how a party could be conducted. A host could
invite the world, or only a limited guest list; Prime Intellect would never
allow a party to be crashed. The host decided on the environment. You either
agreed to the host's rules or you didn't go. In Cyberspace it was particularly
important to establish dress codes; in fact, it was usually necessary to have
body codes if you didn't want folks like Fred showing up. The Change had created
some very unique etiquette problems.
Convention held that all guests would enter and exit through a common door, with
no teleporting around the site. This limited the largest parties to several tens
of thousands of people, though half a million had managed to attend the one
Lawrence threw ten years after the Change. A party could go on as long as the
host wanted. It cost nothing to hold one.
But to be a host, you needed guests. You either needed other guests of renown,
or artworks to show off (such as Death exhibitions), or some other attraction to
draw guests. Free food and booze were no longer enough. Anybody could have those
in limitless quantity in the privacy of their own personal space.
Raven held her first party only a few months after the Change, and had been
holding it annually since. Not a few people marked the passage of years by the
banner above Raven's door; this time it would say 590th REUNION. Contrary to
usual practice, there was no dress or body code. But there was one simple
admission requirement: You had to have killed someone before the Change. In
other words, permanently.
Raven was one of only a few hundred people worldwide who had been sentenced to
death, but not yet executed, at the time of the Change. Her crime had been the
murder of her own children in their Chicago slum walk-up. She told the court it
was because she couldn't bear to hear them crying from hunger, but the neighbors
all said their hunger was due to her well-documented drug habit.
