Fred was another. In fact, had the Night of Miracles occurred only a few weeks
later, there was a good chance that Fred would have missed it; he had one appeal
left and at that point fully expected to keep his date with the electric chair.
He had killed two kids, a brother and sister, ages nine and twelve. He hadn't
been particularly bright back then, and he had kept a little journal to help his
memory. They said he had gotten the death penalty because of the one entry:
"Killed the girl today. It was fine and hot." When that was read in court,
Fred's attorney put his face in his hands and shook his head.
But the Change had given Fred all the time in the world to educate himself. His
first lesson had been the value of a secret well hidden, and he no longer kept a
diary.
There were about seven hundred thousand who were formally invited, who were
known to have killed when it mattered. But the serial killers and mass murderers
were the stars. People who killed for a cause were not welcome, nor those who
had killed because they had to, in self-defense or as part of their normal
duties in war or police work. Raven meant her reunion to be a gathering for
those who had tasted the nectar of human blood and found the taste addictive.
Technically, Caroline didn't qualify for admission. Killing had been the
furthest thing from her mind back then; had she not been so ill at the time, she
might easily have added her own voice to those calling for Fred's head on a
pike. Even her bizarre post-Change friendship with Fred couldn't get her in. But
Raven did make a very few exceptions for those who she felt were worthy.
Caroline's friendship with Fred hadn't made her worthy, but rabies had.

Caroline hadn't become a Death Jockey overnight. After she had learned to die,
she had to learn to die gracefully. Finally she had learned to die
imaginatively. Fred had been a great instructor in that regard.
At first Death had been little more than a parlor trick, or a private ritual to
be experienced alone. But within months of the Change there were impromptu
competitions to stage the most savage, outre', and unique demonstration.
Ironically it was Caroline, who hated everything formal and social about
Cyberspace, who formalized the Death contract and helped to organize the social
structure of the Death Jockey "circuit." Fred noticed this lack of consistency
but never mentioned it to her; having drowned her emptiness in a sea of rage,
even Fred could see she needed an outlet for the rage. And one thing she quickly
found out once she started Dying regularly was that pleasure and pain were still
real.
Especially pain. Sometimes the pleasure didn't come, but the pain always did.
And that was enough for her.
After a busy round of hangings, stabbings, shootings, electrocutions, falling
from tall objects, and drownings, Caroline had decided to check out diseases. In
the medical library, she homed in on one of the most horrible deaths known to
man, rabies infection. She noted that many rabies victims had killed themselves
rather than continue their suffering, so she had taken steps to prevent herself
from making such an easy escape from her self-imposed ordeal. She declared an
exhibition and arranged with Prime Intellect to have herself handcuffed and
dropped into an open pit with a rabid dog.
The dog had savaged her before she managed to kill it by sitting on its ribcage
until it suffocated. She hadn't yet embarked on her body-building campaign, and
the dog had been a big one, half German Shepherd and half foam-drenched teeth.
For a while she feared she would die of blood loss before the infection could
take hold. But she did survive the immediate attack. The pit was earthen so she
couldn't kill herself by bashing her head on the sides or floor; the walls
crumbled when she tried to climb out. And of course it was hard to climb with
her hands tied behind her.
She waited.
Her wounds became infected and ran with pus; she lost feeling in her left leg.
For a couple of days she wondered if she would die of gangrene before the rabies
showed up. Then on the tenth day she began to feel weak and feverish. She had
been ravenously hungry; she had arranged for no food, just to make things worse
for herself. But her hunger disappeared. She felt her throat constrict. On the
eleventh day she began to foam at the mouth.
The pit swam with colors. Her body seemed to catch fire as the disease entered
its excitative phase. She shook. She was immersed in fire, pins and needles,
unbearable sound, and terrible light. For the first time in years she felt real
fear. It was worse than the worst bad acid trip. It was exactly what she had
hoped for. How much worse could it get?
Suddenly she was standing above the pit, looking down on her own dead body.
Something was wrong; Prime Intellect was never, ever supposed to keep two copies
of a person. She noted with professional detachment that "her" body was covered
with shit and twisted into an impossible position. Prime Intellect's console
appeared before her:

 *  Your infection has run its course. I hope you are pleased.

Her fingers danced on the keyboard.

 >  Why was I taken from the pit early?
*  You were not. However, it is impossible for me to construct a coherent memory
in a healthy brain of the events after the point you last remember. Irreversible
damage progressed beyond the actual neural network and affected the data
structures which make you conscious and capable of memory.

Caroline glared at the screen, slack-jawed. She had been robbed of her coup. A
beautiful, unique death, and she couldn't remember it. There was no point
prodding Prime Intellect on the matter; if it said something couldn't be done,
it meant it.
It must have sensed her disappointment:

 *  You may, of course, observe your Death from a third-person vantage point, as
an outside observer. It has been recorded at high resolution.
>  Gee, thanks.
*  I did not record this event so carefully just for your appreciation. It was
negligent on my part to allow you to lose this time, which amounts to fifty-six
hours. It was not certain that I would be able to reconstruct you. In order to
do so I had to access records which were marked for erasure. In the future I
will terminate any experiences which threaten to re-create this type of neural
destruction.
>  What do you mean "records marked for erasure?"
