Caroline nodded, sighed, and said: "Prime Intellect, standard Death Contract
for...is twelve hours enough?"
"It should be," Timothy said.
"Standard Contract for twelve hours." She felt the warning buzz that meant it
had heard; then disconnect. The always-present listening ear, or microphone, was
gone. It would obey her last command perfectly -- until it was countermanded by
Timothy, whose universe it was, or by her own impending demise, which would kick
in the First Law. Or until twelve hours had passed, in the unlikely event she
survived that long.
No matter what happened, she would have no trouble making Raven's party.
She jumped.

She fell about ten meters and landed on her feet, breaking her left leg below
the knee. That was no big deal; had she landed on one of the spikes which dotted
the bottom of the hole, she'd already be impaled. She wondered what would happen
next if she had; impaling is cute but it hardly qualifies as a grade-nine
experience.
It was dark. Very Freudian; she should have expected that from a Catholic kid,
no matter how rebellious he thought he was. They'd be watching her with enhanced
senses, though. Timothy wasn't the sort to extend Authenticity to the
observation process.
Well, it was his universe.
She was at one end of a tunnel. It was dolled up to look like a natural cave,
but Caroline knew right away that there was nothing natural about it. Real caves
do not grow in nice neat lines. They twist. They tend to follow the soft rocks,
which occur in sheets and often aren't level. The hole she had fallen through
should have been a sinkhole; she should be surrounded by fallen rocks and
debris. But it was as straight and solid as an elevator shaft.
This space had none of the defining qualities of a natural cave. It was just a
rough tunnel, carved by Timothy's imagination. He had thought to hang
stalactites from the tunnel ceiling, even though there were no other cave
formations to suggest how they were formed, and no matching stalagmites
projecting from the flat, dry floor.
She began crawling down the tunnel, and the first stalactite fell inches from
her side. It shattered; it was not stone but some glasslike material that
revealed thousands of razor-sharp edges. Another fell some distance away. Great,
she thought idly. She crawled on, collecting hundreds of small cuts from the
shards. Then one fell on her left hand directly, skewering it. Caroline gasped,
but she didn't scream. She just broke it off and kept going.
She wondered if he was aiming them, or if the fall was random. It didn't really
matter; the idea wasn't to survive, after all.
She reached the end of the tunnel, and found herself in a small chamber. Another
tunnel veered off to the right at a sharp angle. How imaginative. A glowing ball
hung by a thread from the ceiling. She raised her hand toward the light and
watched in astonishment as her fingers sheared off in a perfect line.
"Whafuck?" she said aloud. She moved her hand again, and sliced off more flesh.
An invisible cutting surface was stretched across the room. The pain was
beginning to get interesting, but not interesting enough to counteract her
growing sense of boredom. Blood was jetting from the stumps of her fingers.
Summoning her strength, she aimed carefully and sat up, deliberately
decapitating herself.
She was conscious of her own head falling, striking the floor as her body
twitched above, and then Prime Intellect intervened.
"Why the hell did you do that?" Timothy demanded from across the entry pit. She
had snapped back whole, as if she had never jumped. She could still feel a
little pain where her leg had broken, just a fading echo. Fading fast.
"If you had designed it right, I wouldn't have been able to do that. What the
hell was that cutter supposed to be, anyway?"
"That was diamond monofilament. Part of the booby trap you were supposed to get
past, minus a few more dents. If you..."
"You call that Authentic?"
"It's physically possible..."
"No it's not. This is science-fiction shit. What were those stalactites made of?
I can tell you it wasn't calcium carbonate. Look, you want to compete in Pain,
or Adventure, or Imagination, go right ahead. But Authentic is for things that
could really have happened in the pre-Change world."
"I don't think you understand..."
"I don't think you understand, sonny. Did you bother to ask Prime Intellect
about me?"
"You're pre-Change and you're the best. That's what counts."
"Not just pre-Change. I was a hundred and six years old. Before the Change. I
was in a nursing home with bedsores the size of baseballs and six different
kinds of cancer eating me away. And my nurse was stealing my pain medication to
trade for cocaine, so I got to experience every delightful moment in full
three-D. This went on for years. And I didn't know Prime Intellect was gonna pop
me back into this nice healthy body when it was all over. It was just the inky
unknown and the pain. That's what death is. That's what counts."
"I was just trying to reach an artistic balance," he pouted. "I didn't realize
you'd be so picky about the technical details."
"Artistic? What fucking bullshit! You think I've never been chopped into little
bitty bits before? You just don't have time to appreciate art in a situation
like that. Not if you have any human feelings at all."
"Why not? It's just a game."
"That is exactly the problem." She signalled Prime Intellect, and the meadow
disappeared.

"You really put him in his place."
The words came from a shambling monster, a skeleton with loose folds of rotting
flesh draped across its bones. Although its muscles couldn't possibly work, it
moved, pointing a bony finger at her. The jaw moved as it talked, and sound came
out even though the larynx and lungs had long rotted away. Its voice was strong
and powerful. Surprisingly bright and alert eyes bobbed in the eye sockets.
"You're starting to stink, Fred."
"I know. I think it adds an extra dimension to the experience. You wouldn't
believe how many types of bacteria are involved in the decay process."
Fred was on his seventh body as a zombie; when all the scraps of flesh rotted
away and he was reduced to a living skeleton, he'd have it fleshed out again and
start the process over. He had directed Prime Intellect to change the rules
slightly in his personal space; death was still impossible, but healing occurred
only in the authentic circumstances at the authentic rate. When healing was
impossible, as it was after each time Fred cut his wrists to extinguish the life
of his new body, consciousness and feeling would go on. Even for a rotting
corpse.
It had started out as nothing more than a little joke on Caroline's periodic
un-aging ritual, but Fred had found that it was fun to be a zombie.
