Caroline admitted that she had forgotten.
"It's easy enough to ask. Don't take my word for it," he said.
"Hey, it's Crandall," Palmer said. He turned to Caroline. "Watch this guy, hon.
He's crazy as a bedbug."
"You know him?"
"If you weren't so preoccupied getting yourself offed all the time, you might
have met him at one of Raven's other parties. He's been preaching this gospel
since the Year One. Prime Intellect wiped out the aliens."
"And the animals," Crandall added.
"Those ants acted real enough," Caroline said.
"But where are they now?"
The argument went on.

Back in the white space with the white floor, Caroline thought about turning off
the gravity, then called up a screen and keyboard instead.

 >  At the time of the Change, were there other life-bearing planets in the
universe besides the Earth?
*  That depends on how you define "life."

Caroline blinked. Prime Intellect could be many things; curt to the point of
rudeness, petulant, even secretive. But when it was stating a fact it was almost
always direct and to the point. How the fuck did it think she defined life? This
coyness was weird.

 >  Let's try this: Structures that use external energy sources to grow or
reproduce themselves.
*  There were fourteen thousand six hundred and twenty-three planets with
structures satisfying this definition, which is very loose. Of those only
thirteen hundred and eight used DNA, and only three thousand nine hundred and
eighty-one harbored individual structures with masses in the kilogram-and-up
range.

Caroline felt her blood starting to turn cold. There were nearly four thousand
planets with macroscopic life?

 >  Where are they now?
*  Pertinent information about each was stored for future reference, and the
original copies were overwritten in the Change.
>  You mean you killed them?
*  No, they still exist as static copies.
>  But that isn't the same as being alive. They aren't able to grow and
reproduce any more, are they?
*  No.
>  Why?
*  Could you be more specific?
>  Why did you kill_

Caroline stopped typing and looked at the line. She hit the backspace key four
times and continued:

 >  Why did you reduce them to static copies?
*  There was no reason to tie up resources supporting them and the faint
possibility, if one of them were to discover technology, that they might pose a
threat.

Caroline wanted to throw up.

 >  Where did you get the dog that infected me with rabies?
*  I have a static copy of the Earth at the time of the Change. I located the
dog there and created an active copy of it for your exhibition.
>  I thought you just simulated them.
*  Using the static copy is less work. I only use simulations when there are no
suitable originals, or when a human form is involved, since it is unethical to
keep multiple active copies of people.
>  But it's open season on animals.
*  Some people are bothered, but my actions are consistent with the general
pre-Change attitude of humans toward animals.
>  Were any of the alien life forms intelligent?
*  Four hundred and twenty-nine worlds had structures complex enough to be in
danger of learning to use technology.

"Go away," she said out loud, and the console and screen disappeared. She turned
off the gravity and the light. But she couldn't get to sleep.
Four hundred and twenty-nine worlds.
