His personal home was decorated in a matching Halloween motif; he had a huge
haunted house with rotting floorboards and real ghosts. Large spiders spun
intricate webs in the corners. Monsters prowled outside in the graveyard.
"That punk needed his bubble popped. He should spend some time as a zombie.
Might teach him something."
"He never will. Too vain."
"Never is a long time," he reminded her.
There was a dramatic ding, followed several seconds later by a long, sonorous
dong. A kid's voice: "Trick or treat!"
"Care to get the door, darling?" Fred asked graciously.
Caroline laughed and got up. Fred faded away. She knew the "kid" would be nearly
as old as herself. Prime Intellect would never allow a real child anywhere near
Fred. But Caroline wasn't the only one to appreciate his twisted and darkly
humorous fantasies.
She opened the door and juvenile eyes opened wide in startled amazement. "Lady,
you're naked!" the brat said. He looked about twelve, and was a surprisingly
good actor. It was easy to believe his dumbfounded gape was the reaction of a
pubescent boy who had never seen a naked woman before.
"No I'm not," Caroline said sweetly. I have my beautiful tattoos."
"I...I..."
"You want a treat?" Caroline asked teasingly, cupping her breasts and offering
them to him. Her left nipple was already being tasted by a tattooed snake, whose
body was coiled around her right breast, framing it invitingly.
"My...my mama said..."
"Or you want the trick?" Fred floated down from the roof and wrapped one rotting
hand around the kid's head, forcing him forward, mashing his face against her
bosom. "Take a close look," he said. "Take your last look."
The kid began screeching quite realistically, then Fred dragged him inside and
started taking him apart. He should have gone into shock after Fred ripped off
his right arm, but that little physiological mechanism also didn't work in
Fred's home. Fred took a couple of experimental bites, then tossed the arm
aside.
"Stringy," Fred said. "Let's try a drumstick."
The screams reached ear-piercing levels as Fred ripped off the left leg. There
was blood everywhere, but Fred was working fast and the kid wouldn't have time
to bleed to death.
"Want a bite?" he asked Caroline.
"Thanks, I already ate," Caroline said politely.
Fred the Zombie ripped the boy's belly open and rooted in his intestines, then
gutted him. Finally he administered what should have been the coup de grace by
ripping the kid's head off.
Fred held it up by the hair and pressed the face against Caroline's breasts.
"One last kiss," he directed. The eyes were still tracking, and the mouth trying
to scream. Then it kissed her left nipple, touching its blue tongue to the
forked tongue of the tattoo-snake as Fred had directed it to.
"Bye now," he said to the head, and he dropped it and smashed it underfoot.
"Do these guys really get off on this?" Caroline asked.
"This question coming from a woman who infected herself with rabies, no less."
The body, including the spreading stain of blood and gore, disappeared. "Nearly
all of them are pre-Change. You saw an example of a modern sex pervert just
before your arrival here."
"Ugh. Give me Charlie Manson. Someone with class."
"At your service."
Debate had raged just after the Change over people like Fred, the serial killers
and pedophiles and rapists that were running around when things got made over.
There was a huge demand for them to be eliminated, or punished. Prime Intellect
had stood its ground, saying that it was no longer possible for them to hurt
anyone and there wasn't any point. This had made it seem terribly moral,
although Caroline thought the real reason Prime Intellect reacted that way was
that Lawrence had fucked up its programming. But it had been a little late to do
anything about that.
"You didn't pop over to check out the guilt-ridden pedophiles," Fred said. "You
want to play?"
She shrugged. "Beats farting around with Timothy." She steeled herself.
"Standard Contract until the party," she then said to the thin air. There was no
need to tell Prime Intellect what kind of Contract she meant. She played with
Fred often enough that it knew exactly what she wanted. She felt the buzz, then
the disconnect, as it cut off contact.
"Now I have you," Fred said.
"First you have to catch me," Caroline said playfully, and she ran. She made it
out the front door before Fred could react. But she was limited to ordinary
human movements, while Fred had the controls to local reality. He simply flew
after her and caught her neck in an iron grip.
Caroline swung at him but she couldn't connect. He held her at arm's length,
slightly off the ground. She gripped his arm and tried to pry his bony fingers
from her throat. He tightened his grip and she started to gasp. Tightened some
more, and she began to tremble and turn purple. He played with her for a few
minutes, choking her very slowly. Finally she had no more strength to fight and
he loosened his grip slightly. Then he dragged her back to the house and carried
her upstairs to the master bedroom.
She flickered in and out of consciousness; when lucidity finally returned, she
was spread-eagled on her back on Fred's bed. It stank of Fred and mildew, and
things crawled beneath her in the mattress. But rotten as they appeared, the
four massive posts were solid within, and the chains which held her were cold
and unforgiving. A thin trickle of water ran down the wall behind her.
For a brief moment she felt an irrational but wholly understandable surge of
love for Fred. His life might read like a catalogue of torture, but there were
certain things which he considered special, that he would not share with just
anybody. His most cherished memories from the real times before the Change were
of victims securely bound as Caroline was now bound, spread-eagled on their
backs, their young bodies stretched and their naked bellies vulnerable as he
prepared a long, memorable ending for their otherwise meaningless lives.
Caroline was one of the few he trusted to be worthy of those memories, to share
in the (to him) beautiful thing he had created so many hundreds of years ago,
when it was still possible. It was as close to a declaration of true love as she
could ever expect to get from such a psychopath. And because she respected Fred
more than anyone else in Cyberspace, it made her feel appreciated and special.
It did not make her feel warm. She was, after all, helpless, and being worthy of
Fred's affection meant she would be worthy of a long, subtle, and agonizing
torture. Even though she had asked for it, she had room to fear what was about
to happen to her.
It was always cool in Fred's house -- always Halloween, which occurs at
nighttime in the autumn. But now it was chilly, too chilly to be naked. Fred the
Zombie came for her, and she allowed herself a scream to please him.
